#summary This page describes how to make sure new members have the right permission.

= Introduction =

This page tells new members of tmlinux, how to make sure they have the right permission. <br>
To validate your membership of tmlinux, you need to make sure:
 # You can checkin source code.
 # You can submit an issue.
 # You can edit wiki.

By the way, if you want to checkin linux kernel source code to git repos, you need to register at http://www.github.com. And then tell me your account. I will enable your membership of linux-2.6-trimedia.

= Details =

==1 checkin source code==

 # Login http://www.google.com using your google account
 # open at http://code.google.com/p/tmlinux/source/checkout, and you will find the message "When prompted, enter your generated googlecode.com password.". Click googlecode.com password link, you will find your password
 # checkout source code (e.g: uClibc) using the following command:
svn checkout https://tmlinux.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ tmlinux --username $<your google account email address>
 # Add a very simple file and commit using svn client.
 # If succeed, it means that you have the right perrmision to checkin source code. If failed, please write email to me.

==2 submit an issue==

 # Login http://www.google.com using your google account.
 # open http://code.google.com/p/tmlinux/issues/list. And then click "New issue".
 # write something at summary and description and then click "Submit issue".
 # If success, it means that you have the right permission to submit an issue. If failed, please write email to me.

==3 edit wiki ==

 # login http://www.google.com using your google account.
 # Open http://code.google.com/p/tmlinux/wiki/TriMedia. And then click "Edit this page".
 # Write some information and click "Submit"
 # If success, it means that you have the right permission to edit wiki. If failed, please write email to me.
